# Reflect 10: How does AI change our relationship to play, rules, and narrative?

Generative AI has the potential to create what seems to be an endless amount of play and narratives. There might come a time when AI is good enough to generate a video game that seems almost indistinguishable from a human made work. This, however, is still limited by its inherent limitations like limited memory, hallucinations, and statistical patterned thinking. While you might think that presenting these limitations is some sort of counterargument against AI, the ability for AI to adapt in real time with vast possibilities ultimately changes a relationship to rules.
A dynamic and adaptive relationship toward rules has existed in different forms in the past but not to the personalized degree that AI presents for play and narrative. What can this mean given the current limitations and an uncertain future? I am not exactly sure, but I am certain of one aspect. While words can seem to have an emotional effect, it remains merely a slave to pride. What I am trying to get at is that this dynamic relationship AI has toward play, rules, and narrative is and will continue to be monetized for profit (not just for financial but for influence or supremacy). As a result, some value will be lost toward our relationship to play, rules, and narrative. If everything must appease us, then nothing will. Sometimes the only way to receive a lasting emotional impact or to grow as a person is to accept suffering and allow the possibility of being told something we do not like.