# The Final Reflection
The following is my final reflection for DH101. To find previous reflections, please view each assignment and their conneceted reflection.

# Reflect 14: What does it mean to be human in the age of AI?
My view on what it means to be human in the age of AI has become more nuanced and with further complication than just “human is good and AI is bad.” There are a myriad of dynamic power structures that are revealed tracing artificial intelligence development both locally and globally. A question that I have yet to find a proper answer for is, “Given my understanding of the operation of AI and its impact on the human population, what actions can I take?” A person can discuss and mention how AI contains biases and reveal previous power structures, but what I think is often overlooked is how that person’s own biases impact and shape what is acknowledged and what is forgotten. Before considering what it means to be a human in the age of AI, the exact labor and environmental costs have to be revisited in order to better contextualize my view.
One cost surrounding AI development is involved within a greater framework of technology today being the mining for rare earth elements to produce batteries and chips. I researched this topic during the semester, specifically on the cruel aspects of cobalt mining in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. What surprised me while researching was how the voices of actual miners were obscured and turned invisible in favor of a specific narrative with questionable motives. It was for this reason I decided to highlight specific quotes from miners in my zine. As humans become more dependent on certain technologies like AI, any abuses relating to cobalt mining and mining as a whole is unlikely to improve across the board. I say this not to be negative but rather as a reflection of the human relationship seen especially with AI. Tech companies and consumers profit from their invisible work in ways that allow people to continue their activities without any major hurdles. Because of this, I think there is some value in seeing how people value convenience when it comes to being human in the Age of AI.
Another cost associated with AI development is the ecological cost of it from energy, water, and infrastructure usage. At different points throughout the semester, I have visited this topic, mostly relating to how data centers operate. These data centers are a necessity in how AI operates and consume massive amounts of energy and water to power and cool their infrastructure. I have not even mentioned the carbon footprint, which I made a calculator for each prompt.  While it theoretically can be sustainable, it would require in part a societal attitude change. What this reveals about humans and their relationship to AI is how society values a “smartness” from technology but not necessarily an “efficiency” from it. No one usually wants to imagine themselves causing a straining impact on the environment or even society regardless if it is sustainable or not.
After revisiting these labor and environmental costs and trying to reexamine them under the lens of human identity, I have seen what is valued by a person and what will be reflected as a result in the age of AI. In society today, people value convenience and intelligence. Both of the valued convenience and intelligence have to be easy to understand yet make a person seem higher or more advanced. It would be incorrect to assume that all people have a psychological egoism, but it would be further incorrect to say that people are always motivated by humility. This is without even considering other wider societal influences like different values held in various cultures characterized by opportunism, idealism, or etc. What I am trying to get at is regardless if a person prompts an AI to write an entire essay or whether that person writes the essay themselves relies on what humanity values at the time.
It is a societal choice that humans use AI even if personally a person would rather live without it. Considering human choices and what is valued in society, it is hard for me not to see humanity within the age of AI even if machines are generating items or artifacts. I would reframe the concept of “humanity vs. AI” to humanity with AI. For this reason, I think it is more understandable why I have not found a concrete answer to “what I can do?” in relation to recognizing the impact of AI. Ask a person what they can do for society and they probably will not be able to give a complete sincere response. I would like to end my contextualization mentioning that humanity relies on our individual responses and choices that impact society as a whole.